# scratch

- So I started off with the idea of creating a mini basketball game using the "Andie" sprite and a basketball court backdrop. I had taken inspiration from one of the scratch samples provided in the 261 repository, specifically the "demoscratchassignment". I wanted to make each movement in each direction quick so I had put the wait time between each movement to 0.1 seconds but after putting in the sound of the basketball bounce between each move, I realized there was no use of the buffere time as the time it took for the sound to play was enough. Additionally, in order to reduce the sudden
"jolt" of sounds and motion when clicking multiple arrows at once, I added a half-second of delay before being able to press the button again. I then realized it would be easier to just initiate the sound (not until it ends) and have larger movements. I then added a 0.3 second buffer before going again. I also wanted Andie to be able to shoot the basket and I did this by having the user press the space button so that it would trigger the costume switch to that of Andie shooting the ball followed by a 0.8 second buffer and then the initiation of a splash sound (not an actual basketball splash because they didn't have any so it's just the sound of water splashing) and a cheering sound, rounded off with a costume switch to that of Andie celebrating his bucket! So for the basketball sprite, I copy and paster the same movement code as the Andie sprite and got rid of the costume switch (because there are no other costumes) and the sound initiation of the basketball bounce. For the shooting mechanics, when the spacebar is pressed the basketball transports to the top of the basketball rim, waits 0.8 seconds to sync with the cheer and splash sound, and then drops down right to a position of the backdrop right at the bottom of the rim on the floor. Then, the basketball waits 1 second and then returns to the Andie sprite by gliding across for 1 second, returning the basketball to Andie and being able to go again. Lastly, I wanted to add a scoreboard so I created a variable called "score" and everytime a bucket was made, the score would go up by 1. I also created a reset funciton so that when the user presses "r", the score variable is reset back to 0.
